[release] minimalistic changes for 8.18 (#17997)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/changes.rst

Version 8.18
------------

Summary of changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Coq version 8.18 integrates two soundness fixes to the Coq kernel along

> with a host of improvements. We highlight a few impactful change above all:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a host of improvements. We highlight a few impactful changes above all:
```

Version 8.18
------------

Summary of changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Coq version 8.18 integrates two soundness fixes to the Coq kernel along
with a host of improvements. We highlight a few impactful changes above all:

  - the default :ref:`locality <818HintLocality>` of `Hint` and :cmd:`Instance`
    commands was switched to :attr:`export`.
  - the universe unification algorithm is now able to delay the commitment to a

>     sort (the alrithm used to pick `Type`). Thanks to this feature many `Prop`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    sort (the algorithm used to pick `Type`). Thanks to this feature many `Prop`
```

    and `SProp` annotations can be now omitted.
  - Ltac2 supports array literals, maps and sets of primitive datatypes such

>     as names (of contants, inducticve types, etc) and finally fine grained

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    as names (of contants, inductive types, etc) and finally fine-grained
```

>     as names (of contants, inductive types, etc) and finally fine-grained

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    as names (of constants, inductive types, etc) and finally fine-grained
```

    control over profiling.
  - The warning system offers new categories, enabling finer (dis)activation of specific warnings.

>     This should be particularly usful to handle deprecations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This should be particularly useful to handle deprecations.
```

>     This should be particularly usful to handle deprecations.

Author: Apparently it is broken (see https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/17982) so I'm not putting it forward.

>     This should be particularly usful to handle deprecations.

Reviewer 2: OK that makes sense, although it works for quite a few useful things.

  - many new lemmas considered useful to teach analysis with Coq are now part of
    the standard library about real numbers.

> The 42 contributors to the 8.18 version are:
> Kate, Reynald Affeldt, Tanaka Akira, Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau, Matthieu Baty, Yves Bertot,
> Lasse Blaauwbroek, Ana Borges, Ali Caglayan, Cyril Cohen, Maxime Dénès,
> Andrej Dudenhefner, Andres Erbsen, Jim Fehrle, Yannick Forster,
> Paolo G. Giarrusso, Gaëtan Gilbert, Jason Gross, Samuel Gruetter,
> Stefan Haan, Hugo Herbelin, Yoshihiro Imai, Emilio Jesús Gallego Arias,
> Olivier Laurent, Meven Lennon-Bertrand, Rodolphe Lepigre, Yishuai Li,
> Guillaume Melquiond, Karl Palmskog, Pierre-Marie Pédrot, Stefan Radziuk,
> Ramkumar Ramachandra, Pierre Rousselin, Pierre Roux, Julin S,
> Kazuhiko Sakaguchi, Weng Shiwei, Michael Soegtrop, Matthieu Sozeau,
> Enrico Tassi, Hao Yang, Théo Zimmermann.

Author: ```suggestion
The 41 contributors to the 8.18 version are:
Reynald Affeldt, Tanaka Akira, Matthieu Baty, Yves Bertot,
Lasse Blaauwbroek, Ana Borges, Kate Deplaix, Ali Caglayan, Cyril Cohen, Maxime Dénès,
Andrej Dudenhefner, Andres Erbsen, Jim Fehrle, Yannick Forster,
Paolo G. Giarrusso, Gaëtan Gilbert, Jason Gross, Samuel Gruetter,
Stefan Haan, Hugo Herbelin, Yoshihiro Imai, Emilio Jesús Gallego Arias,
Olivier Laurent, Meven Lennon-Bertrand, Rodolphe Lepigre, Yishuai Li,
Guillaume Melquiond, Karl Palmskog, Pierre-Marie Pédrot, Stefan Radziuk,
Ramkumar Ramachandra, Pierre Rousselin, Pierre Roux, Julin S,
Kazuhiko Sakaguchi, Weng Shiwei, Michael Soegtrop, Matthieu Sozeau,
Enrico Tassi, Hao Yang, Théo Zimmermann.
```

> Version 8.18's development spanned over 6 months from the release of
> Coq 8.17.0. Maxime Dénès and Enrico Tassi were the release managers.

Author: ```suggestion
We are very grateful to the Coq community at large for the help in making this
new version of Coq. Version 8.18's development spanned over 6 months from the release of
Coq 8.17.0. Maxime Dénès and Enrico Tassi were the release managers.
```

Version 8.18
------------

Summary of changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Coq version 8.18 integrates two soundness fixes to the Coq kernel along

> with a host of improvements. We highlight a few impactful changes above all:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
with a host of improvements. We highlight a few impactful changes:
```

Doesn't add anything that "highlighting" doesn't cover

  - the default :ref:`locality <818HintLocality>` of `Hint` and :cmd:`Instance`
    commands was switched to :attr:`export`.

>   - the universe unification algorithm is now able to delay the commitment to a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - the universe unification algorithm can now delay the commitment to a
```

>     sort (the algorithm used to pick `Type`). Thanks to this feature many `Prop`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    `Sort` (the algorithm used to pick `Type`). Thanks to this feature many `Prop`
```

IINM

    and `SProp` annotations can be now omitted.
  - Ltac2 supports array literals, maps and sets of primitive datatypes such

>     as names (of constants, inductive types, etc) and finally fine-grained

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    as names (of constants, inductive types, etc) and fine-grained
```

Not needed.

    control over profiling.

>   - The warning system offers new categories, enabling finer (dis)activation of specific warnings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - The warning system offers new categories, enabling finer (de)activation of specific warnings.
```

    This should be particularly useful to handle deprecations.

>   - many new lemmas considered useful to teach analysis with Coq are now part of

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - many new lemmas useful for teaching analysis with Coq are now part of
```

>   - many new lemmas useful for teaching analysis with Coq are now part of
>     the standard library about real numbers.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
  - Many new lemmas useful for teaching analysis with Coq are now part of
    the standard library about real numbers.
  - The `#[deprecated]` attribute can now be applied to definitions.
  
```

The 41 contributors to the 8.18 version are:
Reynald Affeldt, Tanaka Akira, Matthieu Baty, Yves Bertot,
Lasse Blaauwbroek, Ana Borges, Kate Deplaix, Ali Caglayan, Cyril Cohen, Maxime Dénès,
Andrej Dudenhefner, Andres Erbsen, Jim Fehrle, Yannick Forster,
Paolo G. Giarrusso, Gaëtan Gilbert, Jason Gross, Samuel Gruetter,
Stefan Haan, Hugo Herbelin, Yoshihiro Imai, Emilio Jesús Gallego Arias,
Olivier Laurent, Meven Lennon-Bertrand, Rodolphe Lepigre, Yishuai Li,
Guillaume Melquiond, Karl Palmskog, Pierre-Marie Pédrot, Stefan Radziuk,

> Ramkumar Ramachandra, Pierre Rousselin, Pierre Roux, Julin S,

Reviewer 4: @ju-sh, would you like us to include your full name in the 8.18 contributors list?

> Ramkumar Ramachandra, Pierre Rousselin, Pierre Roux, Julin S,

Author: ```suggestion
Ramkumar Ramachandra, Pierre Rousselin, Pierre Roux, Julin Shaji,
```

Kazuhiko Sakaguchi, Weng Shiwei, Michael Soegtrop, Matthieu Sozeau,
Enrico Tassi, Hao Yang, Théo Zimmermann.

> We are very grateful to the Coq community at large for the help in making this
> new version of Coq. Version 8.18's development spanned over 6 months from the release of

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We are very grateful to the Coq community for their help in creating 8.18
in the 6 months since the release of
```

Coq 8.17.0. Maxime Dénès and Enrico Tassi were the release managers.

> | Sophia-Antipolis, August 2023,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Sophia-Antipolis, September 2023,
```
